```text
DISEASE: Chalazion

ABBREVIATIONS:
- BD: Twice daily
- mg: Milligram
- mL: Milliliter

DIAGNOSTICS:
- Clinical examination revealing a gradually enlarging, painless nodule on the eyelid.
- May involve the meibomian gland (chalazion) or gland of Zeis (marginal chalazion).
- Can be associated with meibomian gland disease or rosacea.

TREATMENT ALGORITHM:

IF patient has a chalazion:
    IF lesion is small and early stage:
        THEN apply dry hot fomentation frequently.
        IF lesion resolves spontaneously:
            THEN no further treatment needed.
        ELSE IF lesion persists:
            THEN proceed to pharmacological or surgical treatment.
    ENDIF

    IF lesion is persistent or large:
        IF lesion is close to the lacrimal punctum:
            THEN consider steroid injection.
            IF steroid injection is chosen:
                THEN inject 0.2 to 2 ml of 5 mg/mL triamcinolone diacetate aqueous suspension diluted with lidocaine (or equivalent) through the conjunctiva into the tissue around the lesion using a 30-gauge needle.
                IF lesion does not respond after one injection:
                    THEN consider a second injection 2 weeks later.
            ENDIF
        ELSE
            THEN consider other treatments (e.g., oral antibiotics, incision and curettage).
        ENDIF

        IF patient has recurrent chalazia, particularly if associated with acne rosacea:
            THEN consider prophylactic treatment with doxycycline.
            IF doxycycline is chosen:
                THEN administer Cap. doxycycline 100 mg BD for 7 days.
            ENDIF

        IF chalazion is large, present for more than 3-4 months, or cosmetically unacceptable:
            THEN consider incision and curettage.

PATIENT EDUCATION:
- Inform patient that recurrence is possible.
- Advise on common causes of recurrence: uncorrected refractive error, blepharitis, diabetes.

CONTRAINDICATIONS:
- (None specified in the text for the listed treatments, but standard contraindications for steroids and antibiotics apply based on patient history/allergies).
```