```text
DISEASE: Phobic Disorder

ABBREVIATIONS:
- SSRIs: Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors
- Tab.: Tablet
- mg: Milligram
- /day: per day

DIAGNOSTICS:
- Excessive, irrational fear of specific object, circumstance, or situation.
- Social phobias: Marked and persistent fear of social or performance situations.
- Exposure to phobic stimulus provokes immediate anxiety, sometimes leading to panic attack.
- Patient is aware of the irrational nature of fears and avoids the anxiety-provoking stimulus.
- Causes marked distress in interpersonal, occupational, and social areas of life.

TREATMENT ALGORITHM:

// Non-pharmacological Treatment
IF Patient prefers non-pharmacological treatment THEN
    IF Systematic desensitization is chosen THEN
        Expose patient to fearful stimulus in a serially graded manner.
        Continue exposure (imagined or actual) as long as the patient can tolerate.
    ELSE IF Insight-oriented psychotherapy is chosen THEN
        Enable patients to understand the origin of phobia, secondary gains, and role of resistance.
        Help them seek healthy ways of coping with phobic stimuli.
    ELSE IF Hypnosis is chosen THEN
        Administer hypnosis.
    ELSE IF Supportive therapy is chosen THEN
        Administer supportive therapy.
    ELSE IF Family therapy is chosen THEN
        Administer family therapy.
ENDIF

// Pharmacological Treatment
IF Patient prefers pharmacological treatment OR non-pharmacological treatment is insufficient THEN
    IF SSRIs are chosen THEN
        // Dosage based on specific SSRI (e.g., paroxetine)
        Administer Tab. paroxetine 12.5 - 50 mg / day in divided doses.
    ELSE IF Benzodiazepines are chosen THEN
        // Dosage depends on specific benzodiazepine and patient factors (not specified in text).
        Administer Benzodiazepines (dosage not specified).
    ENDIF
ENDIF

// Patient Education
DISPLAY "With regular treatment, most patients show improvement."
DISPLAY "Treatment needs to be continued for a long time, particularly in childhood onset phobias."

```