```text
DISEASE: Toothache

ABBREVIATIONS:
- Cap.: Capsule
- Tab.: Tablet
- b.d.: twice a day
- mg: milligram
- q.i.d.: four times a day
- prn: as needed
- O.D.: once a day

DIAGNOSTICS:
- Clinical examination identifying the source of pain.
- History taking to determine cause (dental caries, periodontal issues, eruption, sinusitis, neuralgia, etc.).
- Radiographs may be used to rule out causes and assess bone loss/root resorption, especially for impacted third molars.

TREATMENT ALGORITHM:

IF the cause is dental caries, periodontal pocket, abrasion, attrition & erosion, peridontitis, or third molar eruption (Impacted Tooth):
    THEN consider pharmacological and/or surgical treatment.

IF the cause is maxillary sinusitis or trigeminal neuralgia:
    THEN consider pharmacological treatment targeting the underlying cause (e.g., antibiotics for sinusitis, specific medications for neuralgia).

PHARMACOLOGICAL TREATMENT:

IF choosing an antibiotic:
    IF using amoxicillin:
        THEN administer Capsule amoxicillin 250 mg to 500 mg three times a day for 5 days.
    ELSE IF using ciprofloxacin:
        THEN administer Tablet ciprofloxacin 250 mg to 500 mg two times a day for 5 days.

IF choosing an analgesic/anti-inflammatory:
    IF using diclofenac potassium:
        THEN administer Tablet diclofenac potassium 50 mg twice a day (b.d.) for 3-5 days.
    ELSE IF using ibuprofen:
        THEN administer Tablet ibuprofen 400 mg three times a day for 3-5 days.

SURGICAL TREATMENT:

IF the cause is dental caries:
    THEN consider excavation of caries and application of a sedative dressing (e.g., with clove oil).

IF the cause is plaque or calculus:
    THEN perform removal of plaque and calculus by scaling and application of local medicaments.

IF there is an irritant (e.g., high filling, high spot):
    THEN remove the irritant.

IF the pulp is exposed:
    THEN anesthetize the tooth and extirpate the pulp.

IF the cause is an impacted third molar:
    THEN consider removal of the impacted third molar.
    IF radiographs are taken:
        THEN take radiographs to rule out cause and take another radiograph after 6 weeks to assess bone loss and root resorption.

PATIENT EDUCATION:

- Advise on maintenance of oral hygiene.
- Explain the importance of tooth preservation.
- For pediatric patients, consider pit and fissure sealing.
- Advise against biting hard objects on anterior teeth during fixation periods (if applicable).
```